Adding Planning the Custom Device page (#12)
ni/niveristand-custom-device-handbook: docs/Planning_The_Custom_Device.md

Manually adding extra pages to a custom device after running the Custom Device Template Tool is cumbersome. Avoid this issue by creating a few extra pages beyond what you think will be necessary. Unused extra pages are not executed, but they do consume marginal space on disk.

### GUID

When you associate an extra page with a channel or section, you override the default page for that item. This is done by specifying a GUID when the item is created, or by setting the item’s GUID using **[NI VeriStand](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846M-01/veristandmerge/vs_ni_veristand_vis_pal/)** » **[Custom Device API](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846M-01/veristandmerge/vs_custom_device_api_vis_pal/)** » **[Configuration VIs](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846M-01/veristandmerge/vs_configuration_vis_pal/)** » **[Item Properties](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846M-01/veristandmerge/vs_item_properties_vis_pal/)** » **[Set Item GUID](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846M-01/veristandmerge/vs_set_item_guid_vi/)**.

![](images/NI_VeriStand_API_to_Set_an_Item_GUID.JPG)
**Figure: NI VeriStand API to Set an Item’s GUID**

> The Custom Device Template Tool generates a GUID for each extra page in the Extra Page Names (No Extension) control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The niveristand-custom-device-wizard generates a GUID for each extra page in the Custom Device Extra Page Names control.

```

There is a GUID Generator VI in <vi.lib>\NI Veristand\Custom Device Tools\Custom Device Template Tool\Custom Device Template Tool.lvlib:GUID Generator.vi. Before you can run this VI by itself, you must change the Custom Device Template Tool.lvlib\subVIs access scope to public, and set the
 

> VI’s Execution Priority to Normal. There are also a variety of free GUID generators on-line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

XML Declaration

> The custom device API associates a channel or section with a GUID. The custom device XML associates the GUID with the page VI. The page and its GUID must be declared in the custom device XML <PAGES> section within a <PAGE> schema. If the developer planned for the extra pages before running the Custom Device Template Tool, the tool makes the appropriate entries in the custom device XML file for each extra page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The custom device API associates a channel or section with a GUID. The custom device XML associates the GUID with the page VI. The page and its GUID must be declared in the custom device XML &lt;Pages&gt; section within a &lt;Page&gt; schema. If the developer planned for the extra pages before running the niveristand-custom-device-wizard, the tool makes the appropriate entries in the custom device XML file for each extra page.
```

> ![](images/Custom_Device_XML.JPG)

Reviewer: Please replace this snip with a higher resolution one (by zooming in the pdf).

**Custom Device XML Showing the Page Name, GUID, and VI**

### Build Specification

> Extra pages are dynamically called VIs. Since they are not a part of the custom device’s VI hierarchy, they must be explicitly included in the custom device's Build Specification. If the developer planned for the required extra pages before running the Custom Device Template Tool, the tool configures the build specifications to include the extra pages into the initialization library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extra pages are dynamically called VIs. Since they are not a part of the custom device’s VI hierarchy, they must be explicitly included in the custom device's Build Specification. If the developer planned for the required extra pages before running the niveristand-custom-device-wizard, the wizard configures the build specifications to include the extra pages into the initialization library.

```

From an operator's perspective, custom device inputs and outputs may seem backwards. Hardware inputs correspond to custom device outputs. The operator is not required to interact with the custom device source code, only System Explorer. If the developer did a good job, channel direction should make sense to the operator.
 
![](images/Nested_Custom_Device_Hierarchy.JPG)
**Figure: Nested Custom Device Hierarchy and Corresponding Initialization VI**

The figure above is an example of a nested hierarchy for the AES-201. The channels have been organized into *Hardware Enables* and *Hardware Inputs* sections. This device is well-organized and fairly intuitive. Note how the **Section Ptr** outputs are used to create channels beneath the corresponding section in the Initialization VI. Also note how the parent reference is used to create the trigger channel at the same level as the two sections in the custom device hierarchy.

You can create an arbitrarily complex hierarchy. You should plan the custom device hierarchy to use the minimum number of sections that make the hierarchy well-organized, intuitive, and user friendly.

### Pages

> Pages are VIs that System Explorer displays in the configuration pane. The configuration pane is a Subpanel. Subpanels are LabVIEW front panel containers that allow a VI to display the front panel of another VI. See [LabVIEW Help](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/371361R-01/) » [Fundamentals](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/371361R-01/TOC5.htm) » [Building the Front Panel](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/371361R-01/TOC9.htm) » [Concepts](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/371361R-01/TOC10.htm) » [Front Panel Controls and Indicators](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/371361R-01/lvconcepts/fp_controls_indicators/) » [Containers](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/371361R-01/lvconcepts/container_controls_and_indicators/) » Subpanel Controls for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pages are VIs that System Explorer displays in the configuration pane. The configuration pane is a Subpanel. Subpanels are LabVIEW front panel containers that allow a VI to display the front panel of another VI. See **[LabVIEW Help](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/371361R-01/)** » **[Fundamentals](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/371361R-01/TOC5.htm)** » **[Building the Front Panel](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/371361R-01/TOC9.htm)** » **[Concepts](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/371361R-01/TOC10.htm)** » **[Front Panel Controls and Indicators](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/371361R-01/lvconcepts/fp_controls_indicators/)** » **[Containers](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/371361R-01/lvconcepts/container_controls_and_indicators/)** » Subpanel Controls for more information.

```

> An item’s page gets displayed in the Subpanel when the operator clicks on the item in system Explorer’s configuration tree. Pages run on the host computer. They define the appearance and configuration experience of the custom device. The [niveristand-custom-device-wizard](https://github.com/ni/niveristand-custom-device-wizard/releases) creates two configuration VIs by default: Initialization and Main. The Initialization VI is a simple VI (it doesn’t get populated into the Subpanel), the Main VI is a page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An item’s page gets displayed in the Subpanel when the operator clicks on the item in system Explorer’s configuration tree. Pages run on the host computer. They define the appearance and configuration experience of the custom device. The **[niveristand-custom-device-wizard](https://github.com/ni/niveristand-custom-device-wizard/releases)** creates two configuration VIs by default: Initialization and Main. The Initialization VI is a simple VI (it doesn’t get populated into the Subpanel), the Main VI is a page.
```

> When you click on the top-most custom device item in the configuration tree, &lt;Custom Device Name&gt; Main Page.vi goes into System Explorer’s configuration pane’s Subpanel and its block diagram executes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you click on the top-most custom device item in the configuration tree, *&lt;Custom Device Name&gt; Main Page.vi* goes into System Explorer’s configuration pane’s Subpanel and its block diagram executes.
```

When you click on the top-most custom device item in the configuration tree, *&lt;Custom Device Name&gt; Main Page.vi* goes into System Explorer’s configuration pane’s Subpanel and its block diagram executes.
 

![](images/Main_VI_Populated_into_System_Explorer.JPG)
**Figure: Main VI Populated into System Explorer when the Operator Clicks the Top-level Custom Device Item in the Configuration Tree**

If the developer did not assign a custom page to a new section or channel, the default section or channel page is shown when the operator clicks on the item in the configuration tree.

![](images/The_Default_Section_Page.JPG)
**Figure: The Default Section Page**

![](images/The_Default_Channel_Page.JPG)
**Figure: The Default Channel Page**

> The default pages allow the operator to set a description for the section or page. VeriStand retains this data in the System Definition (.nivssdf) file. You cannot individually modify the block diagram or font panel of the default pages. The Custom Device Template Tool allows the developer to specify extra pages. Extra pages can be used to override the default page for an item. When the developer creates an extra page and associates it with a section or channel, he overrides the default page for that item. You can individually modify the front panel and block diagram of extra pages. The block diagram executes when the operator clicks on the item in the configuration tree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default pages allow the operator to set a description for the section or page. VeriStand retains this data in the System Definition (.nivssdf) file. You cannot individually modify the block diagram or font panel of the default pages. The niveristand-custom-device-wizard allows the developer to specify extra pages. Extra pages can be used to override the default page for an item. When the developer creates an extra page and associates it with a section or channel, he overrides the default page for that item. You can individually modify the front panel and block diagram of extra pages. The block diagram executes when the operator clicks on the item in the configuration tree.
```

Before we discuss adding extra pages in detail, we must cover a two rules for modifying custom device pages.

•	You must not change the size of any page's front panel. The page's front panel is loaded into a Subpanel in the configuration pane. If you change the size of the front panel, it may not fit correctly into the Subpanel and may be unusable.<br />

> •	You must not change the names or connector pane associations of any terminal generated by the page template or Custom Device Template Tool. NI VeriStand uses these objects to interface with the page. If they are changed, the custom device will not work and will likely prevent the operator from deploying the system definition.<br />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
•	You must not change the names or connector pane associations of any terminal generated by the page template or niveristand-custom-device-wizard. VeriStand uses these objects to interface with the page. If they are changed, the custom device will not work and will likely prevent the operator from deploying the system definition.<br />
```

The AES-201 may call for five extra pages. One page for each section, one page each for the *ADDataFromCh<1..8>* and *ADEnCh<1..8>* channels, and one page for the *SWTrig* channel. Even if you don’t wind up using the extra pages, it’s better to have extra pages that you don’t need than to need extra pages that you don’t have.

VeriStand requires four things in order to override a default page with an extra page in the custom device.
1.	Page
2.	Globally Unique IDentifier (GUID)
3.	XML Declaration
4.	Build Specification
 
### Page

A properly formed page VI must exist. If you plan properly, you’ll be able to specify all the extra pages when you run the niveristand-custom-device-wizard. An extra page is created for each element in the Custom Device Extra Page Names control.

> The tool generates the page, GUID, XML Declaration, and includes the page in the build specification. You’ll find the extra page template in Custom Device API.lvlib\Templates\Subpanel Page VI\Page Template.vit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The niveristand-custom-device-wizard generates the page, GUID, XML Declaration, and includes the page in the build specification. You’ll find the extra page template in Custom Device API.lvlib\Templates\Subpanel Page VI\Page Template.vit.
```

![](images/Extra_Page_Names_Array.jpg)<br />
**Figure: Custom Device Extra Page Names Control**

If you do not use the niveristand-custom-device-wizard to create extra pages, you must manually add and configure them.

> Manually adding extra pages to a custom device after running the Custom Device Template Tool is cumbersome. Avoid this issue by creating a few extra pages beyond what you think will be necessary. Unused extra pages are not executed, but they do consume marginal space on disk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manually adding extra pages to a custom device after running the niveristand-custom-device-wizard is cumbersome. Avoid this issue by creating a few extra pages beyond what you think will be necessary. Unused extra pages are not executed, but they do consume marginal space on disk.
```
